ACD-502 (#26)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: DataHub/Integration/05_ManageLanguages.md

[!!User Interface Languages](../UserInterface/02f_Languages.md)
[!!Configure the language settings](../../PIM/Integration/ConfigureLanguages.md)

# Manage the languages

The different languages are needed to be able to maintain attributes in different languages.

> By default, the languages *English (United States)* and *German (Germany)* have been preset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the languages *English (United States)* and *German (Germany)* have been predefined.
```

If you want to maintain further languages, you have to create and activate the respective languages.
You can create an unlimited number of languages.

## Create a language

Create a language to maintain attributes in the desired language.

#### Prerequisites

No prerequisites to fulfill.

#### Procedure

*DataHub > Settings > Tab LANGUAGES*

![Language list](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/Languages/LanguageList.png "[Language list]")

1. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the bottom right corner.   
  The *Create language* view is displayed.

  ![Create language](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/Languages/CreateLanguage.png "[Create language]")

2. Enter a name for the language in the *Name* field.

3. Enter a key for the language in the *Key* field. The key is required for API access and must be system wide unique. The language key must fulfill the criteria of the language codes according to [RFC 4646](https://www.heise.de/netze/rfc/rfcs/rfc4646.shtml). For instance, keys with the following structure are valid:

>   - en

Reviewer: Was ist RFC 4646? Link scheint mir nicht so hilfreich (langes Doku, Cookies-Zustimmung...). Gibt es kein Wiki oder öffentlich zugängliche Liste/Quelle? ISO-ähnlich?

  > [Info] The language must be activated to be used.

5. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.   
  The new language has been saved. The *Create language* view is closed.  

## Edit a language

After you have created a language, you can edit its name or key.

#### Prerequisites

At least one language has been created, see [Create a language](../Integration/CreateLanguage.md).

> [Info] By default, the languages *English (United States)* and *German (Germany)* have been predefined in the *Core1 Platform*.

#### Procedure

*DataHub > Settings > Tab LANGUAGES*

![Language list](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/Languages/LanguageList.png "[Language list]")

1. Click the language you want to edit in the list of languages.   
  The *Edit language* view is displayed.

  ![Edit language](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/Languages/EditLanguage.png "[Edit language]")

2. Edit the desired data of the language in the corresponding fields.

3. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.   
  The changes have been saved. The *Edit language* view is closed.  

## Deactivate a language

> Deactivate a language when it should not be used for a certain time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deactivate a language if it is not (going) to be used for a certain time/temporarily.
```
s.o. zu should/could

> The language is no longer available when it is inactive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 When/while/if it is inactive, the language is no longer/not available.
```

2. Disable the *Active* toggle.

3. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.   
  The language has been deactivated. The *Edit language* view is closed.

## Delete a language

You can delete a language if it is no longer needed.
As there are usually existing dependencies, it is highly recommended not to delete a language.
Instead, you can deactivate a language and thus prevent its use, see [Deactivate a language](#deactivate-a-language).

#### Prerequisites

At least one language has been created, see [Create a language](#create-a-language).

> [Info] By default, the languages *English (United States)* and *German (Germany)* have been predefined in the *Core1 Platform*.

#### Procedure

*DataHub > Settings > Tab LANGUAGES*

![Language list](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/Languages/LanguageList.png "[Language list]")

1. Select the checkbox of the language you want to delete in the list of languages.    
  The editing toolbar is displayed above the language list.

2. Click the [Delete] button in the toolbar.  
  The language has been deleted. The deletion cannot be undone.

>   > [Info] If the selected language cannot be deleted, an error message is displayed in the upper right corner. To prevent the languages use, it is recommended to [deactivate the language](#deactivate-a-language) instead of delete it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Info] If the selected language cannot be deleted, an error message is displayed in the upper right corner. To prevent the languages use, it is recommended to [deactivate the language](#deactivate-a-language) instead of deleting it.
```
